I'd like to begin this video by reminding you of this error message that we found in the previous video.
So here I said, if you want to extract information from multiple indices at the same time, you would,
you know, you might want to use a format like this, but that actually doesn't work.
Okay.
So slicing is one of the ways that we can extract information from multiple elements in a list simultaneously.
So it's not quite this method, but it's something similar.
Okay.
Let's see.
Uh, I'm going to start by creating a list.
Let's call this variable about y.
So y equals range 5 to 11.
Now in the last video I showed you range with one input that was just like this.
And that after we converted it into a list that returned the integers zero through four.
And now I'm going to show you a slightly different way of using range, which is to provide two inputs.
So I have the number five and then a comma to separate the inputs.
And then another number 11.
Now I'm going to talk a lot more about functions and inputs and outputs in a couple of videos for now
okay.
But let's see what this returns again.
Initially this just gives us back a range object, which is literally what I typed in here.
So, uh, until you know how to work with these range objects, this does not seem very useful.
So now let's convert this into a list.
And now we get numbers that start from five.
So this is an inclusive lower bound.
And then they go up to ten.
So again exclusive upper bound.
As I mentioned in the previous video it's weird.
It's hard to understand.
But uh, once you get once you work with Python a little bit more, I promise this stuff will start
to feel natural.
Okay, I said, we're going to call this vector y.
This variable y.
Okay.
So now we have y.
It's a list and it's the numbers five through ten.
So those integers.
Okay.
So you already know how to access individual elements in this list.
Let me print this out.
So we always have this for visual reference.
Okay.
So what I'm going to show you now is how to get multiple elements out of this list.
There's several ways to do this.
One way I'm going to show you now is by writing zero colon two.
Okay.
So I have this list here.
And I'm using the square brackets the same way we use for indexing.
But now I'm providing three characters in here.
So zero and then a colon and then two.
And let's see what this gives us.
So this gives us the numbers five and six.
And what do these correspond to.
Well those are the first two elements.
So I think you're starting to see a pattern.
Here.
We have the lower bound which is inclusive.
That's this number here.
And then we have the upper bound which is exclusive.
And why is this exclusive because this is index zero, index one and index two, but we don't actually
get the seven out of here because this is an exclusive upper bound.
So even though there are actually three integers between 0 and 2, including zero and two, right,
zero, one, two, we only get out the first two elements.
Okay, so now it turns out if you want to index or slice starting from the beginning of a list or a
vector, you can actually just leave the zero out.
So this will also give us five six.
And implicitly Python understands that there's a zero in here.
Okay.
So now yeah we can keep playing around with this.
And here we get the elements from zero up until index four.
So this is index 01234.
So the index four is the number nine.
But this is an exclusive upper bound, so Python only returns up to the number eight.
And we can also do this starting at let's say index two.
So here we have index zero index one.
Index two is the number seven.
And then we go you know we specify this upper bound is four.
But that is an exclusive upper bound.
So we only get up to eight.
Now previously I showed you that you can leave out the first number.
And Python assumes you mean zero.
Similarly we can leave out the last number, and Python assumes that you want to go up until the end.
So two colon is going to give us all of the elements in the list.
So all the list items starting from 012.
So starting at seven all the way up to the end however long this is okay.
And then we can also start to mix and match some stuff.
So let's say we know we want to start indexing or slicing at the at the third index.
So index position two.
And then we don't know exactly where we want to end.
But we know that it's got to be two from the end okay.
So we can do something like this.
So this is minus one.
And this index here is minus two.
And then because this is exclusive upper bound Python is going to return seven eight okay I hope that
makes sense.
Slicing and indexing is a little bit weird to wrap your head around at first, but I hope you're starting
to see the patterns.
Okay, I am going to.
Let's see.
I want to make this a little bit longer.
So now I'm just extending this list to go from 5 to 15.
Now what I'm going to ask for is still from index three.
Actually.
Maybe I'll make this from the second index.
So index location one up until the n minus two.
And now I'm going to put in another colon in here.
And that is going to go here.
So now I have the syntax one.
Colon minus two.
Colon two.
And what does this mean?
So the way to think about this in your head is grouping them together like this.
The spacing is a little ridiculous here but we are grouping together these two.
So before and after the first colon.
And then separately grouping together this colon over here.
Okay.
So what does this mean.
This still gives us from index one to index minus two.
But here this means that we want to skip by two.
So instead of Python returning every single element between 1 and -2, it's going to give us every other
element.
So we start at index one which is here.
And then it's going to skip by two.
So we're not going to get this one.
We are going to get this one.
We're not going to get the nine.
We are going to get the ten and so on.
We're skipping this up until we get to whatever number is as high as we can get to.
So the largest index we can get to that is still below this exclusive upper bound.
So this exclusive upper bound, if we were to set this back to one, you can see this goes up to 13.
So that gives us up to 13 because this is position minus one.
Position minus two.
So that gives us up to here.
But when we skip by two then we cannot actually get up here because this is the last element.
And Python is not going to give us 14 because that is that violates this request over here to have the
end minus two.
Very good.
Uh, two more things I want to show you here, which is making variables.
So let's say start equals.
How about one and stop equals nine.
And then let's say uh skip equals two.
Okay.
So now I'm going to write here start to stop in skip exactly what I just did before.
Well not exactly exactly because I'm using the same numbers, but exactly the same principle.
Except now I'm using variables here instead of writing the numbers directly into the in between the
square brackets here.
Okay.
And then yeah that works.
The last thing I want to show you here is how to reverse order a list.
So to reverse the order of a list you write out the whole list.
So now you know this is going from implicitly it's from zero to the end.
But we can just leave the those numbers out.
So this is giving me well this is skipping by two.
Let's see.
Here's the regular list.
And now if we want to reverse the order of the list we can skip by minus one.
Pretty neat concept.
So we are skipping by minus one, which means we start at the end and we go backwards.
Of course you can also skip by minus two and so on.
This is going to start at the end.
Go to the beginning skipping in steps of two.